Format Zombienet pages (#15)
papermoonio/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft: docs/dev-tools/zombienet/overview.md

zombienet <arguments> <commands>
```

The following sections will guide you through the primary usage of the Zombienet CLI and the available commands and flags.

### CLI Commands

??? function "`spawn` - spawn the network defined in the config file"

    === "Argument"

        - `<networkConfig>` - a file that declares the desired network to be spawned in `.toml` or `.json` format. For further information, check out the [Configuration Files](#configuration-files) section

    !!! warning

>     For the `spawn` command to work on macOS, users need to be aware that the Polkadot binary is currently not compatible with macOS. As a result, macOS users will need to clone the [Polkadot repository](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk){target=_blank}, build Polkadot binary, and manually add it to their PATH.

Reviewer: This warning isn't rendering properly because the content inside the warning needs to be indented 4 more spaces

For example, this does not work:

```
!!! note
Doesn't render properly.
```

But this does work:

```
!!! note
    Now it will render as this text is indented 4 spaces.
 ```

??? function "`convert` - transforms a (now deprecated) polkadot-launch configuration file to a Zombienet configuration file"

    === "Argument"

        - `<filePath>` - path to a [polkadot-launch](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-launch){target=_blank} configuration file with a `.js` or `.json` extension defined by [the `LaunchConfig` interface](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-launch/blob/295a6870dd363b0b0108e745887f51e7141d7b5f/src/types.d.ts#L10){target=_blank}

??? function "`version` - prints Zombienet version"

    === "Argument"

        None 

??? function "`help` - prints help information"

    === "Argument"

        None 

### CLI Flags

You can use the following flags to customize the behavior of the CLI:

??? function "`-p`, `--provider` - override provider to use. Defaults to `kubernetes`"
    
    === "Argument"

        - `<provider>` - the provider to use. Options: `podman`, `kubernetes`, `native`

??? function "`-d`, `--dir` - directory path for placing the network files instead of random temp one"

    === "Argument"

        - `<path>` - desired path for network files  

    === "Example"

>         - `-d /home/user/my-zombienet`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        `zombienet -d /home/user/my-zombienet`
```

This doesn't need to be bulleted since it's code, and let's use 3 back ticks so users can copy the example if they need to

    === "Argument"

        - `<logType>` desired type of logging. Options: `table`, `text`, `silent`

??? function "`-m`, `--monitor` - start as monitor, do not auto clean up network"

    === "Argument"

        None

??? function "`-c`, `--spawn-concurrency` - number of concurrent spawning processes to launch. Defaults to `1`"

    === "Argument"

        - `<concurrency>` - desired quantity of processes

??? function "`-h`, `--help` - display help for command"

    === "Argument"

        None

## Configuration Files 

The network configuration can be given in either `.json` or `.toml` format. The Zombienet repository also provides a [folder with some examples](https://github.com/paritytech/zombienet/tree/main/examples){target=_blank} of configuration files that can be used as a reference.

!!! note
    Each section may include provider-specific keys that are not recognized by other providers. For example, if you use the local provider, any references to images for nodes will be disregarded.

### Settings

Through the keyword `settings`, it's possible to define the general settings for the network. The available keys are:

> - `bootnode` ++"boolean"++ - add bootnode to network. Default is `true`

Reviewer: This is a nitpick, but can you please make the line spacing the same in this section? sometimes there's a line break between list items and sometimes there isn't

Also, please check the following sections

- `chain_spec_command` ++"string"++ - command to generate the chain spec. It can't be used in combination with `chain_spec_path`
- `default_args` ++"string[]"++ - an array of arguments to use as default to pass to the command
- `default_substrate_cli_args_version` ++"enum"++ - set the Substrate CLI args version
- `default_overrides` ++"Override object[]"++ - an array of overrides to upload to the nodes
- `default_resources` ++"Resources object"++ - represents the resources limits/reservations needed by the nodes by default. Only available on Kubernetes
- `default_prometheus_prefix` ++"string"++ - a parameter for customizing the metric's prefix. Defaults to `substrate`
- `random_nominators_count` ++"number"++ - if set and the stacking pallet is enabled, Zombienet will generate the input quantity of nominators and inject them into the genesis
- `max_nominations` ++"number"++ - the max number of nominations allowed by a nominator. Should match the value set in the rumtime. Defaults to `24`

### Node Configuration

There is one specific key capable of receiving more subkeys: the `nodes` key. This key is used to define further parameters for the nodes. The available keys:

> - `name` ++"string"++ - name of the node. Any whitespace will be replaced with a dash (e.g., 'new alice' -> 'new-alice')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` ++"string"++ - name of the node. Any whitespace will be replaced with a dash (e.g., `new alice` will be converted to `new-alice`)
```

Since this is referring to code, let's use back ticks instead of single quotes

- `overrides` ++"object[]"++ - array of overrides definitions
- `add_to_bootnodes` ++"boolean"++ - add this node to the bootnode list. Defaults to `false`
- `resources` ++"object"++ - represent the resources limits/reservations needed by the node. Only available on Kubernetes
- `ws_port` ++"number"++ - WS port to use
- `rpc_port` ++"number"++ - RPC port to use
- `prometheus_port` ++"number"++ - Prometheus port to use
- `prometheus_prefix` ++"string"++ - customizes the metric's prefix for the specific node. Defaults to `substrate`
- `keystore_key_types` ++"string"++ - defines which keystore keys should be created
    
The following configuration file defines a minimal example for the relay chain, including the `nodes` key:

=== "TOML"
        
    ``` toml title="relaychain-example-nodes.toml"
    --8<-- 'code/developer-tools/zombienet/overview/relaychain-example-nodes.toml'
    ```

=== "JSON"

    ``` json title="relaychain-example-nodes.json"
    --8<-- 'code/developer-tools/zombienet/overview/relaychain-example-nodes.json'
    ```

### Node Group Configuration

The `node_groups` key is used to define further parameters for the node groups. The available keys are:

> - `name` ++"string"++ - group name, used for naming the nodes. Any whitespace will be replaced with a dash (e.g., 'new group' -> 'new-group')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` ++"string"++ - group name, used for naming the nodes. Any whitespace will be replaced with a dash (e.g., `new group` will be converted to `new-group`)
```

- `genesis_state_generator` ++"string"++ - command to generate the state file
- `prometheus_prefix` ++"string"++ - parameter for customizing the metric's prefix for all parachain nodes/collators. Defaults to `substrate`
- `onboard_as_parachain` ++"boolean"++ - flag to specify whether the para should be onboarded as a parachain, rather than remaining a parathread. Defaults to `true`
- `register_para` ++"boolean"++ - flag to specify whether the para should be registered. The `add_to_genesis` flag must be set to false for this flag to have any effect. Defaults to `true`

For example, the following configuration file defines a minimal example for the parachain:

=== "TOML"

    ```toml title="parachain-example.toml"
    --8<-- 'code/developer-tools/zombienet/overview/parachain-example.toml'
    ```

=== "JSON"

    ```json title="parachain-example.json"
    --8<-- 'code/developer-tools/zombienet/overview/parachain-example.json'
    ```

### Collator Configuration
   
One specific key capable of receiving more subkeys is the `collator` key. This key is used to define further parameters for the nodes. The available keys are:

> - `name` ++"string"++ - name of the collator. Any whitespace will be replaced with a dash (e.g., 'new alice' -> 'new-alice')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` ++"string"++ - name of the collator. Any whitespace will be replaced with a dash (e.g., `new alice` will be converted to `new-alice`)
```

- `args` ++"string[]"++ - an array of arguments to use as defaults to pass to the command
- `substrate_cli_args_version` ++"enum"++ - sets the version directly to skip default Zombienet behavior of evaluating the binary to determine and set the correct version
- `command_with_args` ++"string"++ - overrides both command and arguments for the collator
- `env` ++"object[]"++ - environment variables to set in the container for the collator
- `env.name` ++"string"++ - name of the environment variable
- `env.value` ++"string"++ - value of the environment variable
- `keystore_key_types` ++"string"++ - defines which keystore keys should be created. For more details, refer to additional documentation

The configuration file below defines a minimal example for the collator:

=== "TOML"

    ```toml title="collator-example.toml"
    --8<-- 'code/developer-tools/zombienet/overview/collator-example.toml'
    ```

=== "JSON"

    ```json title="collator-example.json"
    --8<-- 'code/developer-tools/zombienet/overview/collator-example.json'
    ```

### Collator Groups
   
The `collator_groups` key is used to define further parameters for the collator groups. The available keys are:

> - `name` ++"string"++ - name of the collator. Any whitespace will be replaced with a dash (e.g., 'new alice' -> 'new-alice')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` ++"string"++ - name of the collator. Any whitespace will be replaced with a dash (e.g., `new alice` will be converted to `new-alice`)
```

??? function "`test` - run test on the network spawned"

    === "Argument"

        - `<testFile>` - a file that defines assertions and tests against the spawned network, using natural language expressions to evaluate metrics, logs, and built-in functions

??? function "`setup` - set up the Zombienet development environment"

    === "Argument"

        - `<binaries>` - executables that will be downloaded and prepared to be used by Zombienet. Options: `polkadot`, `polkadot-parachain`

??? function "`convert` - transforms a (now deprecated) polkadot-launch configuration file to a zombienet configuration file"

    === "Argument"

        - `<filePath>` - path to a [Polkadot Launch](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-launch){target=_blank} configuration file with a .js or .json extension defined by [this structure](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-launch/blob/295a6870dd363b0b0108e745887f51e7141d7b5f/src/types.d.ts#L10){target=_blank}

??? function "`version` - prints Zombienet version"

    === "Argument"

>         - none 

Reviewer: @dawnkelly09 Can you please add the above CSS styling to the `polkadot.css` file?

    === "Options"

        - none

??? function "`-l`, `--logType` - type of logging on the console"

    === "Options"

        - `table` (default)
        - `text`
        - `silent`

??? function "`-m`, `--monitor` - start as monitor, do not auto clean up network"

    === "Options"

        - none

??? function "`-c`, `--spawn-concurrency` - number of concurrent spawning processes to launch"

    === "Options"

        - defaults to `1`

??? function "`-h`, `--help` - display help for command"

    === "Options"

        - none

## Configuration Files 

The network configuration can be given in either `json` or `toml` format. The Zombienet repository also provides a [folder with some examples](https://github.com/paritytech/zombienet/tree/main/examples){target=_blank} of configuration files that can be used as a reference.

!!! note
    Each section may include provider-specific keys that are not recognized by other providers. For example, if you use the local provider, any references to images for nodes will be disregarded.

### Settings

Through the keyword `settings`, it's possible to define the general settings for the network. The available keys are:

> ??? function "`bootnode` - add bootnode to network"

Reviewer: For types,  I thought we discussed using the type formatting like on the XCM SDK. 

Instead, we should do this:

- `bootnode` ++"boolean"++ - add bootnode to network. Default is `true`
- `timeout` ++"number"++ - global timeout to use for spawning the whole network"
- `provider` ++"string"++ - provider to use. Default is `kubernetes`

etc.

### Relay Chain Configuration

> You can use `relaychain` keyword to define further parameters for the relay chain at start-up. The available keys are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `relaychain` keyword to define further parameters for the relay chain at start-up. The available keys are:
```

??? function "`default_command` - the default command to run"

    === "Type" 

        - String

    === "Default Value"

        - `polkadot`

??? function "`chain` - the chain name"

    === "Type" 

        - String

    === "Default Value"

        - `rococo-local`

??? function "`chain_spec_path` - path to the chain spec file"

    === "Type" 

        - String
        - Should be the plain version to allow customizations

    === "Default Value"

        - none

??? function "`chain_spec_command` - command to generate the chain spec. It can't be used in combination with `chain_spec_path`"

    === "Type" 

        - String

    === "Default Value"

        - none

??? function "`default_args` - an array of arguments to use as default to pass to the command"

    === "Type" 

>         - Array of strings

Reviewer: We should stick to how the types are represented in code: `string[]`

    === "Default Value"

        - none

??? function "`default_substrate_cli_args_version` - set the Substrate CLI args version"

    === "Type" 

>         - 0 \| 1 \| 2

Reviewer: this isn't a type, they are values. Looks like the type is actually `SubstrateCliArgsVersion` https://github.com/paritytech/zombienet/blob/71d24990fa2e046fa576686a163dd66c80d42002/javascript/packages/orchestrator/src/configTypes.ts#L35

and this is an enum https://github.com/paritytech/zombienet/blob/71d24990fa2e046fa576686a163dd66c80d42002/javascript/packages/orchestrator/src/sharedTypes.ts#L3
